So it is time for us to start talking about encapsulation.
Let's first define it.
The simplest way to think of encapsulation is to think of it as a protective shield that prevents the
data from being accessed by the code outside the shield.
That's all.
Here I have a very simple example to demonstrate what I mean.
Let's say that our object which is right here is the circle and within the object we have a method called
go to work this guy.
And then we have separate steps which define how we get to work.
So these guys right here these are each a separate method.
You can think of.
Now we see how I have public and private right.
Private and public right here.
Basically I'm saying here to go to work method is public and the rest of the methods which are the numbers
are private.
I'm also saying that the go to work method calls all of the numbered methods.
So this guy calls all of these so that it knows how to get to work.
So in other words objects outside of the circle.
Anything outside of the circle can call our go to work method but they cannot call any of the private
methods right here.
The only method which can call the number and methods is the go to work method which is right here.
So see some random objects says Where are you.
It is 9 a.m. and we respond back by saying no problem.
Just call my go to work method which is right here and I will get to work because anything outside of
it can interact with our public method but they cannot interact with the private methods that some other
objects as.
How do you get to work and what we say is don't worry about it.
And that's just us making these private.
We don't want to expose our dysfunctionality.
This is the essence of encapsulation.
We decide what we want to expose out into the world and let the world be able to interact with and some
of the things we keep it to ourselves such as these methods because we don't want the world to know
about them for whatever reason that is going to be specific for each scenario.
That's it.
We'll be talking more about the technical details in our next videos.